So in the previous video,
we take a look at what skewed data looks like.
Hopefully, the data engineering will teach you how to partition correctly.
But sometimes, this could happen.
For example, if you have a seasonal data set like retail,
then you'll see peak in November and December,
no matter what, just like how we saw in this year it peaked.
I'm pretty sure that this dataset isn't missing anything before 2014.
Or since this is a New York State registration,
you will see more on the New York rather than the other states,
then you won't see any of the West Coast States.
One thing we could do is just plainly pick
another column that is more meaningful to use like issue date,
violation code, it might be skewed depending on what city you live in,
vehicle body type, so something that is common to use.
Or what you could do is you could just use a composite key so that
you can avoid the slowness.
For example, what is this composite key mean?
You can combine some code like Summons_Number,
plus Plate_ID, plus Registration_State,
so that you get an even distribution.
In Spark, what you would do is that you will actually
use repartition based on the number of cores that you have.
Right now, I'm running this on locally,
so I know I have two cores.
Then from here, we can use something like this and then spark.read.csv,
the file that we have is parking violation.
So this is Pandas DataFrame specific and this is Spark,
and you're saying I'm going to read as csv.
Then, what you would do, then we need to name this spark_df.
Then whatever you do after,
because I know I have two cores,
I can say spark_df.repartition
and you would plain just write number of the cores that you have,
and then do whatever so on afterwards.
If you use EMR,
you can have like 16,
32, and now 15,
whatever number you designate to.
Then if you use this, this will partition your data
evenly so that it's nicely spread out.